===== PAGE 1 =====
APTSHIELD: A Stable, Efﬁcient and Real-time APT Detection System for
Linux Hosts
Tiantian Zhu, Jinkai Yu, Tieming Chen*, Jiayu Wang, Jie Ying, Ye Tian, Mingqi Lv, Yan Chen,
Yuan Fan and Ting Wang
Abstract
Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) attack usually refers
to the form of long-term, covert and sustained attack on
speciﬁc targets, with an adversary using advanced attack
techniques to destroy the key facilities of an organization.
APT attacks have caused serious security threats and mas-
sive ﬁnancial loss worldwide. Academics and industry
thereby have proposed a series of solutions to detect APT
attacks, such as dynamic/static code analysis, trafﬁc detec-
tion, sandbox technology, endpoint detection and response
(EDR), etc. However, existing defenses are failed to accu-
rately and effectively defend against the current APT attacks
that exhibit strong persistent, stealthy, diverse and dynamic
characteristics due to the weak data source integrity, large
data processing overhead and poor real-time performance
in the process of real-world scenarios.
To overcome these difﬁculties, in this paper we propose
APTSHIELD , a stable, efﬁcient and real-time APT detec-
tion system for Linux hosts. In the aspect of data collection,
audit is selected to stably collect kernel data of the oper-
ating system so as to carry out a complete portrait of the
attack based on comprehensive analysis and comparison of
existing logging tools; In the aspect of data processing, re-
dundant semantics skipping and non-viable node pruning
are adopted to reduce the amount of data, so as to reduce
the overhead of the detection system; In the aspect of at-
tack detection, an APT attack detection framework based
on ATT&CK model is designed to carry out real-time attack
response and alarm through the transfer and aggregation of
labels. Experimental results on both laboratory and Darpa
Engagement show that our system can effectively detect web
vulnerability attacks, ﬁle-less attacks and remote access tro-
jan attacks, and has a low false positive rate, which adds far
more value than the existing frontier work.
1. Introduction
Advanced Persistent Threat Attacks are escalating to the
harm of the current society, and it is often organized by
groups of hackers with certain national, governmental or
other organizational backgrounds—the hackers are usually
well-organized, well-targeted, highly skilled and aggres-
sive, often against the government, core infrastructure (e.g.,
energy, transportation, communication) and key industries
(e.g., military, ﬁnance, health care). APT attacks can pose
a huge security threat, including conﬁdential data leakage
and system integrity damage. APT attacks have occurred
frequently in recent years, showing a high incidence of high
risk in the world, such as: Stuxnet worm attack in Ira-
nian nuclear power plant [1], BlackEnergy virus attack in
Ukraine’s power system [2], and the user information leak-
age attack in Target [3]. The COVID-19-themed attacks
have also been frequently reported [4], e.g., APT groups
have tried to attack ﬁrms working on COVID-19 vaccines
and they have used spear-phishing emails to entice users to
download and execute malicious attachments so as to steal
target-related data and destroy medical infrastructure [5].
APT detection has become an important research topic
widely concerned with academia and industry ﬁeld. A se-
ries of traditional attack detection schemes such as static
code analysis [6, 7], dynamic sandbox detection [8, 9], ma-
licious trafﬁc analysis [10, 11], and hooking technology
[12, 13] can be applied to ﬁght against APT attacks. How-
ever, the detection effect of the above methods is not ideal
due to the problems such as weak de-obfuscate ability, high
computational overhead, and low system stability in the
practical use. Furthermore, with the extension of the net-
work boundaries and the increment of various 0-day vulner-
abilities, it is almost impossible to continue to use these tra-
ditional methods to detect APT attacks. Therefore, the idea
of Detection and Response (DR) came into being, which is
divided into Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) and
Network Detection and Response (NDR). In EDR, the rel-
evant security agent will collect and analyze activity data
of the application program when it is running in the user’s
host/endpoint [14]. While NDR will monitor how threats
enter the network and how they move laterally in the net-
work [15]. Both EDR and NDR can automatically respond
to identiﬁed threats to remove or contain them.
Nowadays, the market for EDR solutions is expanding
1
arXiv:2112.09008v2  [cs.CR]  17 Dec 2021

===== PAGE 2 =====
rapidly to meet the urgent need for more efﬁcient endpoint
protection and potential vulnerability detection. To this end,
the DARPA Transparent Computing (TC) program has tried
to organize multiple scientiﬁc research units to conduct en-
gagements to enable the prompt detection of APTs and
other cyber threats [16]. EDR tools usually record a large
number of system events to a central database. By adopt-
ing techniques such as indicators of compromise (IOC), be-
havior analysis, and machine learning to analyze data, it is
hoped that threats will be detected and responded to at an
early stage.
However, in the life cycle of APT attacks, the current
EDR system (especially the EDR system of the Linux host)
does not form a comprehensive and effective solution to the
problems of selecting data sources for detection, massive
data analysis and storage, association of suspicious behav-
iors in context, detection of 0-day threats, as well as energy
consumption and real-time performance in detecting APT
attacks. The main challenges of the current EDR system
based on the Linux host are as follows:
(1) How to select reliable, stable and semantically rich
data sources. To carry out complete and accurate APT
detection and forensics analysis in the enterprise environ-
ment, it is necessary to retain the complete log data of the
entire enterprise for subsequent analysis. There are three
main log collection methods in the existing attack detec-
tion work: The ﬁrst is the network data ﬂow, analysts only
need to use a switch that supports port forwarding and a
server that analyzes network trafﬁc to obtain relevant data.
However, encryption technologies are widely used by so-
phisticated attackers, making the effective information less
available in network data; The second is the application
log, in this case, both instrumentation and collecting logs
directly from the application are limited to the application
itself. Analysts cannot observe a global view of the whole
system. In other words, the analyst cannot associate the in-
formation of application level with that of system level. The
third is the endpoint system log. Nowadays, there are a few
studies focusing on the collection and analysis of system
events. However, the existing system-based log collection
tools are varied, and few work are able to analyze and eval-
uate these tools under the current Linux system by combing
with collecting performance, data integrity, availability and
other comprehensive factors.
(2) How to reduce the amount of data required for real-
time detection to improve the detection efﬁciency. The
duration of APT attacks is usually much longer than other
attacks. According to the report from Trustwave [17], the
average latency time of APT attacks is about 83 days, and
some of them are as long as several years. Massive data of
APT attacks have made new requirements for analysts: It
is critical to improve real-time detection efﬁciency and re-
duce storage overhead by effective data compaction strat-
egy. Some existing data compaction work [18–23] tries
to use ﬁne-grained taint tracking technology to delete re-
dundant events. However, these methods always rely on
known software models which are lack of generalization.
Although some studies [24–26] have proposed general data
compaction methods based on audit log, their algorithms
read the dependency graph composed of long-term log data
into memory at one time, resulting in huge computing and
memory overhead. By adopting the above methods [24–26]
in the real-world scenario, data compaction and attack de-
tection cannot be guaranteed in a real-time manner.
(3) How to construct a real-time APT detection frame-
work with high adaptability, high coverage, high preci-
sion, low false positives and constant memory overhead.
On the one hand, traditional single point intrusion detec-
tion methods (e.g., network trafﬁc analysis, software static
feature detection, dynamic sandbox detection and hooking
technology) cannot have the ability of anti-escape, reliable
detection and real-time alarm at the same time under the
threat scenarios with the characteristics of persistence, con-
cealment and diversity of APT attacks. On the other hand,
the contextual data analysis studies [27,28] usually preserve
context information via the provenance graph. However,
the size of the provenance graph will explode over time
due to the long duration of APT attacks, rendering these
approaches inevitably suffer from efﬁciency and memory
problems [29]. Furthermore, various new attack channels
and carriers emerge one after another in APT, such as web
vulnerability attacks, ﬁle-less attacks (also known as in
memory attacks or living-off-the-land attacks) and remote
access trojan attacks, which are difﬁcult to detect in the ini-
tial stage of intrusion. The ideal detection scheme should
have good expansibility, be able to cover different types of
sophisticated APT attacks, effectively deﬁne APT related
suspicious behaviors, and comprehensively utilize the full
contextual attack chain to realize real-time and accurate de-
tection of attacks.
To cope with the above challenges, we propose a sta-
ble, efﬁcient and real-time APT detection system for Linux
hosts, called APTSHIELD 1. Firstly, in order to select re-
liable, stable and semantically rich data sources, we make
a comprehensive and detailed evaluation on Linux system
log collection tools. Secondly, for the purpose of reducing
the storage overhead and improve the detection efﬁciency,
we reduce the amount of log data by means of redundant
semantic skipping and non-viable node pruning. Finally,
we construct an APT attack detection framework based on
ATT&CK model [30], and the framework can carry out real-
time attack response and alarm through the transfer and ag-
gregation of labels. In general, the contributions of this pa-
per are as follows:
1APTSHIELD for Stable, Efﬁcient and real-tIme APT Detection sys-
tem for Linux Hosts.
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
• Different from previous studies, we make a detailed
comparison and analysis of the advantages and dis-
advantages of the existing data source. We deploy
multiple indicators and then obtain the optimal data
sources for stable APT detection on Linux through per-
formance analysis and comprehensive judgment.
• We use redundant semantics skipping and non-viable
entity pruning to improve the efﬁciency of real-time
APT detection and reduce data storage overhead for
forensic analysis. Our data compaction methods can
be carried out in real-time streaming data to ensure
the performance of the detection system. Also, the
compaction effect is better than that of existing stud-
ies without affecting the accuracy of ﬁnal results.
• Based on the ATT&CK model, we constructed an in-
formation aggregation framework through system data
ﬂow and control ﬂow. With the help of Tactics, Tech-
niques and Procedures (TTP), the atomic suspicious
characteristics of system entities and their transmission
rules are deﬁned in the framework to realize the aggre-
gation of the contextual information of APT attacks.
Different from traditional single-point detection meth-
ods, our framework can aggregate the information of
the attack chain into speciﬁc entities, and realize the
whole chain detection and real-time alarm of APT at-
tacks with constant memory overhead.
• We implement a stable, efﬁcient and real-time APT
detection prototype system on Linux and conduct ex-
periments on the dataset of Darpa Engagement as well
as the dataset that simulates APT attacks in real-world
scenarios. The experimental results show that our sys-
tem can effectively detect web vulnerability attacks,
ﬁle-less attacks and remote access trojan attacks in a
real-time manner, and has a low false positive rate,
which adds far more value than the existing frontier
studies.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows.
Section 2 surveys the relevant work from three aspects: data
collection, data reduction and APT detection. Section 3 de-
scribes the preliminary background for our work. System
design and evaluation are described in Section 4 and Sec-
tion 5. We conclude and discuss the limitations and im-
provements of APTSHIELD in Section 6.
2. Related Work
In this section, we review notable studies in APT detec-
tion and compare with them in data collection, data reduc-
tion and detection performance to highlight the novelty of
our approaches.
Data collection. In order to carry out practical and effec-
tive APT detection, it’s crucial to select the suitable data
source which meets the characteristics of non-tampering,
low resource consumption, and stability. Network data ﬂow
[31, 32] are widely used by previous studies for intrusion
analysis and detection, but its universality was insufﬁcient
to record all attack operations. Furthermore, encryption
technology makes it difﬁcult for analysts to obtain effective
information. The application data [33] shows the inherent
characteristics of the program when it is running, but the an-
alyst cannot associate the information of application level
with that of system level. Also, some studies [34, 35] use
instrumentation to collect taint records, which may cause
huge memory overhead. Some logging tools are also used
by researchers, such as NanoLog [36], Log4j2 [37], Spdlog
[38], Glog [39], and BoostLog [40]. Nanolog is a nanosec-
ond logging system, which is 1-2 orders of magnitude faster
than other systems, and its throughput is capable of reach-
ing 80 million log messages per second. However, Nanolog
is implemented in C++ and it can only operate on some
static strings. Although the remaining systems (i.e., Log4j2,
Spdlog, Glog, and BoostLog) are able to meet some require-
ments, such as low resource consumption and ﬁdelity, they
are highly coupled with the application itself, and cannot be
used as a general log infrastructure. Also, the above sys-
tems cannot log kernel events to monitor all user actions. In
view of the deﬁciencies of the above data sources, kernel-
based data collection tools are used by researchers, such as
Auditd [41], Sysdig [42], Lttng [44], and Auditbeat [45].
However, there are few studies that conduct a complete and
detailed analysis of these popular data collection tools based
on the needs of the real-world environment.
Different from the previous work, in this paper we com-
pare the performance of the above four kernel-based data
collection tools when the system is no/full load through ex-
periments. The details will be discussed in Section 4.3. Sys-
dig is able to depict complete kernel data and parameters,
but its requirements for CPU and memory are very high due
to its its excessive content. The overall performance of Au-
ditd and Lttng is better than Sysdig, but the output of Lttng
is the binary stream, and it takes a lot of time to recover the
semantic related data. Auditd has many data ﬁltering mod-
ules, it can reduce resource consumption through custom
ﬁltering strategies, thereby meeting all the requirements of
the detection system for data sources.
Data reduction. Due to the huge amount of data required
(the average latency time of APT attacks is about 83 days)
to detect APT attacks, it is critical to improve real-time de-
tection efﬁciency and reduce storage overhead by effective
data compaction strategy. To reduce the system events with-
out affecting the APT detection results is a hot research di-
rection in recent years.
LogGC [18] pioneered the idea of garbage collection for
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
audit log. The authors of LogGC combined with BEEP [19]
to delete events that had no lasting impact on the system.
Subsequently, NodeMerge [46] presented a template-based
data compaction system with the assistance of an improved
FP-Growth algorithm. Some speciﬁc patterns such as im-
age loading and system conﬁguration were extracted for
data compaction. Similarly, Conan [29] preﬁltered the du-
plicated read events through semantic recognition to reduce
the detection efﬁciency. Zhu et al [59] maintained a long list
to record redundant events. However, the above three meth-
ods are only applicable to speciﬁc event types, and have
limitations in complex scenarios (e.g., when ﬁles are ac-
cessed by multiple processes, or there are a large number
of ﬁle write operations, or the real-time performance of the
system will deteriorate as the collection time increases).
ProTracer [20] tried to improve the compaction rate by
dividing the target program into multiple units to perform
ﬁne-grained taint tracking. Later, MPI [21] improved Pro-
Tracer by utilizing a semantics aware program annotation
and instrumentation technique to partition execution, which
was able to generate execution partitions with rich semantic
information. To avoid application instrumentation or kernel
modiﬁcation, MCI [22] utilized LDX [23] to acquire precise
causal models for a set of primitive operations. The com-
paction effect of above methods depends on a large num-
ber of software models. However, there are a lot of unpre-
dictable software running in the real-world production en-
vironment, and it is very difﬁcult to ensure the coverage of
these methods. In addition, software updates may invalidate
the above methods.
Xu et al. [47] presented the concept of trackability. By
aggregating events under the same trackability (i.e., delet-
ing multiple equivalent data streams and retaining only one
of them), they could reduce a large potion of data while
preserving events relevant to a forensic analysis. However,
this method only considers the characteristics of a single
node instead of the global semantics, which makes the com-
paction effect very limited. To solve this problem, both
Hossain et al. [25] and Hassan et al. [26] presented the data
compaction algorithm based on the global semantics of the
provenance graph. But during the calculation, the whole
data of the provenance graph needs to be read into memory
at once, which brings additional I/O and memory overhead.
Furthermore, the above methods cannot process real-time
streaming data and guarantee the real-time performance of
APT detection.
In contrast, APTSHIELD is able to compact (i.e., re-
dundant semantics skipping and non-viable node pruning)
the real-time streaming data to improve the efﬁciency of
real-time APT detection, reduce data storage overhead for
forensic analysis, and achieve a better compaction effect
than existing work without affecting the accuracy of ﬁnal
result.
APT detection. APT attackers usually exploit zero-day
vulnerabilities to compromise the target and conduct long-
term penetration. Traditional attack detection schemes such
as static code analysis [6, 7], dynamic sandbox detection
[8, 9], malicious trafﬁc analysis [10, 11], and hooking tech-
nology [12, 13] are not ideal when facing with the charac-
teristics of persistence, stealth, diversity, and clear goals in
APT attacks. In order to effectively monitor APT attacks,
endpoint detection and response (EDR) is gradually used
by researchers. The provenance graph is an ideal method
for threat modelling with the ability of powerful semantic
expression and attacks historic correlation in the EDR sys-
tem [48]. Provenance graph generally records the coarse-
grained data from the kernel level, including subjects (e.g.,
processes and sockets), objects (e.g., ﬁles), and edges (e.g.,
system events).
BackTracker [51] and PriorTracker [52] tried to use
provenance graph to identify the entry point and the ef-
fect of the attack through backward tracking and forward
tracking, respectively. Sun et al. [49] utilized Bayesian Net-
works to identify zero-day attack paths on the provenance
graph. Similarity, NoDoze [53] performed attack triage
within the provenance graph to ﬁnd anomalous paths. Dur-
ing the provenance-based attack investigation, analysts usu-
ally came across the dependence explosion problem (i.e., an
output event is assumed to be causally dependent on all pre-
ceding input events, and an input event is assumed to have
causal inﬂuence on all subsequent output events). To mit-
igate this problem, Ma et al. [20] presented a lightweight
provenance tracing system to reduce the memory overhead
via unit-based execution partitioning [19], as well as their
improved studies [21, 54]. As discussed in data reduction,
the above three methods mainly rely on software models
and are not universal.
Due to the persistence of APT attacks, it is difﬁcult for
a security analyst to pick out “needle-in-a-haystack” at-
tacks. Learn-based APT detection on long-term provenance
graphs has been proposed by some researchers. Barre et
al. [56] tried to extract statistic features of key processes,
by adopting a random forest model, their system was able to
deliver a detection rate of about 50%. The results show that
simple feature engineering without considering the con-
text of the provenance graph cannot effectively character-
ize complex APT attacks. Berrada et al. [57] designed a
comprehensive experiment on provenance graphs by com-
bining existing techniques for APT anomaly detection and
they found that simple score or rank aggregation techniques
were effective at improving detection performance. Han et
al. [50] presented UNICORN which could model system
behaviors via structured provenance graphs with a graph
sketching technique. Although UNICORN requires no prior
expert knowledge of APT attack patterns or behaviors, the
anomaly-based system will undoubtedly introduce a large
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
number of false alarms, which is difﬁcult to be practical in
real-world scenarios.
In fact, rule-based APT detection is more in line with
commercial needs, it has been shown that rule-based EDR
systems are suitable for addressing the noise problem [55]
(i.e., false alarms and duplicate alerts). Expert policies have
been proposed by Sleuth [27] and Holmes [28] for attack re-
construction on provenance graphs. To match possible ex-
ploits of localized components in the provenance graph, em-
pirical labels and prior speciﬁcations were used by Sleuth
and Holmes, respectively. However, the size of the prove-
nance graph would explode over time due to the long
duration of APT attacks, rendering these two approaches
inevitably suffer from efﬁciency and memory problems.
Poirot [58] tried to detect APT attacks by measuring the
ofﬂine similarity between a provenance graph and a query
graph. The query graph was obtained based on the expert
knowledge from cyber threat intelligence (CTI). The disad-
vantage of Poirot is that only the occurred attacks are able
to be further detected. It is a critical limitation given that
composing the elaborate description of a new category of
APT requires signiﬁcant forensics efforts. Conan [29] de-
tected APT attacks by a three-phase model and pre-deﬁned
rules. Although Conan is capable of capturing the suspi-
cious behaviour in a real-time manner, it has the following
two problems. First, in the case of a large number of con-
current operations in the system (e.g., a large number of
ﬁle read and write operations at the same time), the real-
time performance of Conan cannot be guaranteed because
the event generation rate of the target host may be much
larger than the event throughput of the detection system.
Second, the three-phase model proposed by Conan only re-
ﬂects the path of suspicious data/control ﬂow, and it has no
performance on the tactics used by attackers. That is to say,
it lacks interpretable guidance for the analysis of security
analysts.
Unlike the previous methods, APTSHIELD can de-
tect long-term APT attacks with a constant level of mem-
ory overhead. By adopting the data compaction strategies,
APTSHIELD is capable of guaranteeing the real-time per-
formance. Also, APTSHIELD is able to cover different
types of sophisticated APT attacks (i.e., web vulnerability
attacks, ﬁle-less attacks and remote access trojan attacks),
effectively deﬁne APT related suspicious behaviors based
on ATT&CK model, and comprehensively utilize the full
contextual attack chain to realize accurate detection of at-
tacks.
3. Background
In this section, we ﬁrst introduce system entities and sys-
tem events, followed by the dependency graph composed of
them. Then, we describe the dependency relationship in the
dependency graph. Finally, we introduce how to use prove-
nance graph for forensic analysis.
3.1. System Entity and System Event
Generally, the system entity is able to be divided into two
categories: subject and object. The subject is the initiator of
the event. In most cases, the subject refers to the process.
Speciﬁcally, users are treated as subjects when there is a
user-related event. The object is the target of the event, such
as ﬁles, network IPs, and channels. It is worth mentioning
that processes (e.g., child processes) can also be treated as
objects. System events usually record the actions initiated
by the subject to the object, such as ﬁle reading, ﬁle writing,
process creation, etc.
3.2. Dependence Graph and Dependency
In order to facilitate efﬁcient analysis of system logs,
system entities and events are usually displayed with a de-
pendence graph [51] visually. The dependence graph is also
known as a provenance graph or a dependence graph. In
these graphs, the nodes including subject and object, and the
edges represent the event relationship between subject and
object. Dependency graph is a directed graph, and the di-
rection of the event is from subject to object. For each edge,
there will be a timestamp and an event name to represent the
event sequence and the meaning of the event, respectively.
In some research studies of data compaction [18, 29, 59],
system events are able to be merged with multiple times-
tamps or time ranges.
Dependency graph G can be represented as a combina-
tion of (V, E), where V represents all nodes (system enti-
ties) and E stands for all edges (system events). For any
edge e∈ E, there is e = (u, v, t), where u, v∈ V , u repre-
sents the subject, V represents the object, and t represents
the time stamp of the event. For the two edges in the de-
pendency graph, e1 = ( u1, v1, t1), e2 = ( u2, v2, t2), we
consider that there is a dependence between e1 and e2 if
v1 = u2 and t1 < t2.
3.3. Forensic Analysis
Forensic analysis is also known as trace analysis, and its
main purpose is to help analysts understand when, how and
what impact the attack has been made. In the process of
APT analysis, analysts have two tasks. The ﬁrst one is to
determine the entrance of the attack (e.g., the initial process
and ﬁle entering the terminal and the source IP/port of the
attack). The analysis process to achieve this goal is called
backward analysis, which is tracing suspicious information
ﬂow from the process marked as suspicious through the op-
posite direction of information ﬂow. Backward analysis was
ﬁrst proposed by BackTracker [51]. During backward anal-
ysis, the timestamp is used to judge the causal relationship
between different events. For the second task, forward anal-
ysis is used to analyze the impact of attacks [25,59], such as
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
accessing to sensitive information, tampering with system
conﬁguration, etc. The origin of forward analysis is usually
the attack entry point obtained by backward analysis or any
point in the attack chain.
4. Methods
In this section, we ﬁrst introduce the threat model and
the overall architecture of our proposed APT detection sys-
tem. We then discuss several important topics in its design,
including data collection, data compaction, and APT detec-
tion framework.
4.1. Threat Model
Based on famous APT attack, RSA SecurID tokens leak-
age [60], we considers the following attack scenarios: an
employee received an email with the words ”recruitment
plan”. The employee downloaded and opened the attach-
ment, then was hit by the latest 0-day vulnerability. At
the same time, the attacker established a command&control
connection with the employee’s host, continuously down-
loaded and executed the remote access Trojan that the at-
tacker had prepared, which was not able to be detected via
the anti-virus software. As a result, the attacker now had
access to the target host in the corporate environment. Fur-
ther, the attacker used this machine as a springboard to per-
form lateral movement. And the other employee’s or senior
manager’s host that associated with the employee’s were
successively controlled by the attacker. Then the attacker
could stay for months or even years until he completed the
ultimate goal, such as the theft of conﬁdential documents or
the destruction of the integrity of the system.
In the threat model of this article, the logs generated by
the operating system are considered credible. We assume
that the system is not attacked before the start of data col-
lection. Attackers can compromise the target host in a va-
riety of ways, including but not limited to 0-day vulnera-
bilities, social engineering, virus-carrying USB ﬂash drive,
etc. The primary task of the attacker is to run the malicious
code on the victim’s machine, and then collect target infor-
mation through remote command&control. Attackers will
hide themselves in normal system activities through dis-
guise, with the ultimate goal of stealing high-value data or
destroying the integrity and availability of the system.
4.2. System Overview
The architecture of APTSHIELD is illustrated in Fig-
ure 1. It consists of three parts: data collection module, data
compaction module, and APT detection framework. Firstly,
kernel-based tools are adopted for data collection. Through
comprehensive analysis, we choose auditd as the collec-
tor on the client side since it provides sufﬁcient data with
low overhead. The collected system logs (including entities
and events) will construct a dependence graph. Secondly,
redundant semantics skipping and nonviable node pruning
will be adopted to compact system logs. The main advan-
tage of data compaction is to improve the efﬁciency of real-
time APT detection and reduce data storage overhead for
forensic analysis. Thirdly, APT detection framework is pro-
posed based on the ATT&CK model. The atomic suspicious
characteristics of system entities (i.e., process labels and ﬁle
labels) and their transfer rules (through events with differ-
ent semantics) are deﬁned in the framework to realize the
aggregation of the contextual information of APT attacks.
The APT will be alerted from a speciﬁc entity (through
judgement rules), and ﬁnally the related attack chain will
be found through forensic analysis.
4.3. Data Collection
In order to detect APT in a real-time manner with high
efﬁciency, it is crucial to select optimal data sources and
data collectors. To this end, in this section we ﬁrst sort out
the data sources for APT detection under the Linux system,
and then analyze and select the best data collector that meets
the requirements.
4.3.1 Data Requirements
According to the ATT&CK model, the host-based APT de-
tection system needs to collect relevant data from different
stages (e.g., initial access, untrusted execution, data exﬁl-
tration, etc.). We summarize requirements of both data col-
lector and data sources into the following three aspects:
(1) Tamper-proof. APT attacks are camouﬂaged. In or-
der to avoid detection, APT attackers often hide their at-
tack traces (e.g., bash history and log message can be easily
modiﬁed/deleted by an attacker, thereby increasing the dif-
ﬁculty of attack detection). We need to select credible data
sources to ensure that intruders cannot avoid detection by
tampering with data.
(2) Stability and Low Overhead. APT attacks are per-
sistent. That means data collection is a long-term process.
Firstly, the data collector needs to be directly deployed on
the user’s host. If the data collection takes up too much re-
sources, it will affect the user’s normal usage. Secondly,
the detection system needs to perform stable and real-time
detection and alarm, this requires data to be collected and
transmitted in real-time without any data loss. Thirdly, the
operation of the data collector cannot affect the stability of
the system (e.g., it should not be requested to modify the
kernel)
(3) Rich semantics. APT attacks are diverse. It is neces-
sary to analyze a series of data such as ﬁle IO data, net-
work IO data, inter-process communication data, process
attribute modiﬁcation data, sensitive system operation data,
and ﬁle attribute modiﬁcation data.
Based on three requirements above, the kernel-level logs
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
Figure 1. System Overview of APTSHIELD. Data collection module, data compaction module and APT detection framework are the
key components of APTSHIELD. The kernel-based tool (Auditd) is deployed on the client side for system logs collection. By adopting
redundant semantics skipping and nonviable node pruning, data compaction module will help data storage overhead. APT detection
framework is responsibility for real-time aggregation of the contextual information of APT attacks with the help of ATT&CK model. Once
the threat/attack occurs, APTSHIELD can ﬁnd the entire attack chain through forensic analysis.
Table 1. Performance comparison of four different kernel-based
data collectors. We tested the CPU (single core) and memory us-
age of each collectors on full-load and no-load. All the results are
the average based on 10 tests independently.
Collector No-load Full-load
CPU
(%)
Memory
(MB)
CPU
(%)
Memory
(MB)
Auditd 0.2 31.2 2.0 31.2
Lttng 2.0 403.6 23.0 467.6
Sysdig 19.0 108.4 22.0 463.4
Auditbeat 1.2 136.4 7.1 170.4
are used as the main data source. We analyze and select the
best data collector currently available on Linux, which will
be described in details in the next section.
4.3.2 Data Source Analysis and Selection
As introduced in Section 2, current data collectors that are
active in the community are sysdig, auditd, lttng, and au-
ditbeat. With the Intel Xeon E5 CPU (8 cores) and 64G
memory running on Ubuntu 16.04, we analyze and com-
pare the performance (CPU and memory usage) of these
data collectors when the host is no-load and full-load (i.e.,
use commands to increase the CPU usage to more than 95%.
The executed commands include but are not limited to ﬁle
reading and writing, ﬁle downloading, inter-process com-
munication, executing shell scripts, accessing pages, etc.),
respectively. The results are shown in Table 1.
It can be seen from Table 1 that auditd and auditbeat have
better overall performance when the server is fully loaded.
The overhead (memory) of auditd is the same under both
no-load and full-load because its memory usage is related
to the buffer size. In the actual test, the buffer size can be
controlled within 40MB to meet the data demand under full
load. If sysdig is used as a collector, there will be service
crashes and data loss when the system is fully loaded. The
output data generated by lttng is a binary byte stream, and
parsing requires a lot of costs. Considering that auditd is a
module that comes with the kernel and has the lowest cost,
we ﬁnally select auditd as the data collector in this article.
In addition, we use the stress testing tool UnixBench [61]
to monitor the state of auditd when it is turned on/off. The
results show that when auditd is turned on, the total score
of UnixBench drops about 0.3% compared to that is turned
off, which is basically negligible.
4.4. Data Compaction
If the collected raw data is sent directly to the server
for processing, it will consume a lot of storage and net-
work resources due to the long duration of the APT attack.
Therefore, in the real-world enterprise environment, these
data should be compacted ﬁrst, and then sent to the stor-
age/detection server. The data compaction method should
meet the following conditions: (1) Real-time. The data
consumption rate should be greater than the data genera-
tion rate to avoid the impact of cached data on the real-time
performance of the detection system; (2) High efﬁciency.
The data compaction method has low CPU and memory us-
age, and will not affect the operating system itself. Also,
it will greatly reduce the data transmission bandwidth and
data storage cost; (3) High accuracy. The compacted data
should maintain the dependencies in the original data, and
should not have a negative impact on the APT detection and
forensic analysis of APT attacks. In this section, we will
ﬁrst give the insight for data compaction. Then we intro-
duce two algorithms in our data compaction method: re-
dundant semantics skipping and non-viable node pruning.
4.4.1 Insight for Data Compaction
In order to perform data compaction without affecting the
detection results, it is important to analyze the contextual
semantics of dependency graph. In the attack detection
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
based on the dependency graph, it is necessary to analyze
the interaction behavior of the system entities by judging the
different semantics of the system events (that is, the edges
of the dependency graph), and then ﬁnd the path related to
the attack. From the perspective of semantic transfer, we
assume that entity u has an event e1 directed to entity v at
time t1. It is considered that entity u hash an impact on
entity v at time t1. Then at time t2 ( t2 > t 1), there is an
event e2 pointing to entity w from entity v, so it is consid-
ered that entity v has an impact on entityw at time t2. Since
the event e2 occurs after the event e1, it can be considered
that the entity u has an impact on the entity w, which is
transmitted through the entity v.
Take Figure 2 as an example. The circle represents the
process, the rectangle represents the ﬁle, the diamond rep-
resents the IP/DNS, the arrow represents the event, and the
number on the arrow represents the time point of the events
(the smaller the number, the earlier the event occurs). Pro-
cess P is affected by the event generated by x.com at time
t1, and P obtains semantic information from the network.
After that, the system event with processP as the initial en-
tity will have a direct impact on other entities (i.e., ﬁle A,
ﬁleB, and process Q). However, considering that process
P is only affected by the event generated by x.com before
time t5. It can be judged that from time t1 to time t5, other
entities pointed by process P are only affected by the net-
work information from x.com to P . After the event at time
t5 occurs, other entities pointed by process P are simul-
taneously affected by the network information from both
x.com to P and y.com to P . According to observations
above, we can see that the impact of the event on the entity
is lasting. From the perspective of contextual semantics,
when an entity receives an event containing external infor-
mation, the entity will contain certain characteristics trans-
mitted by the event. And these characteristics will affect the
ﬂow of information from this entity. Our main idea/insight
of data compaction is derived from these observations: If
the semantics of source entity has not changed and the
destination entity has received multiple same informa-
tion streams (events) from the source entity, these events
will have the same semantics, which can be combined to
delete redundant semantics.
The result of redundant semantics skipping is shown in
Figure 2. The data compaction process is as follows:
(1) After the time t1, process P already has the seman-
tics from x.com, and the event at t2 do not introduce any
new semantics and can be deleted.
(2) Although during t5 and t7 an event (at t6) from P
to Q occurred, it only affects the semantics of Q and the
semantics of P remains unchanged. The events at time t5
and t7 have the same semantics, and we can delete the event
at time t7.
(3) We can ﬁnd that events att4,t8, and t9 have the same
Figure 2. An example about Data compaction. It contains the
original provenance graph G and the compacted graph G′.
subject and object. The event at time t5 has changed the
semantics of P , so the event at time t8 should be retained.
Since the events at time t8 and time t9 have the same se-
mantics, we can delete the event at time t9.
Note that in this example, we assume that the semantics
of IP/DNS (i.e., external network) was not changed. But in
the real-world scenario, the external network may be com-
promised by an attacker, thereby causing semantic changes.
To address this problem, we design a time window T to re-
tain the network receiving events at a low frequency, which
is inspired by [25, 59]. For example, if T = 50 , then af-
ter every 50 time intervals, the semantics of IP/DNS will be
refreshed and retained again. We choose T = 50 in this
paper.
4.4.2 Redundant Semantics Skipping
APTSHIELD maintains a table to store the latest semantic
information of all processes. When the semantics of the in-
coming event is the same as that in the semantic table, the
event can be considered as redundant and deleted. If there
are a large number of repeated read and write operations,
deleting redundant semantic events can greatly reduce exe-
cution time and memory overhead.
The algorithm of redundant semantics skipping is shown
in Algorithm 1. The input is the real-time streaming data
(events) and the output is whether to delete the event or
not. In addition, we use LST to record the set of (entity,
event) that have been occurred. When processing the real-
time event, the algorithm will determine whether the sub-
ject S exists in LST . If it exists, then determine whether
the event e is the same as stored event e′. If it is the same,
the event will be deleted. We found that when the size of
LST gets larger, the efﬁciency of this algorithm will be-
come lower. Therefore, we propose to empty the list when
the LST reaches a certain size. In the test, it is found that
when the threshold is set to 5, APTSHIELD has better per-
formance and efﬁciency. In addition, when the event e is a
WRITE/RECV event, the event e′ stored in LST related to
O need to be deleted. The reason is that the semantics of the
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
object O will be changed due to the WRITE/RECV event.
Algorithm 1 Data Compaction of Redundant Semantics
Skipping
Input:
(1)Streaming data (events) in chronological order, each event ei
contains a subject Si and a object Oi
(2)The set of (entity, event) that have been occurred recently are
denoted as Latest Semantic Table LST
Output:
Whether the event is skipped
Initialize:
The set of (entity, event) LST = ∅
1: for ei∈ streaming events do:
2: if Si not exists in LST.Keys then
3: LST add (Si,ei)
4: else
5: if ei equals to e′
i then
6: Skip the event
7: Continue
8: else
9: Delete (Si,e′
i) in LST
10: Add (Si,ei) to LST
11: if Oi exists in LST.Keys then
12: Delete (Oi,e′
i) in LST
13: end if
14: end if
15: end if
16: if LST.size≥ 5 then
17: LST = ∅
18: Continue
19: end if
20: if ei∈{ WRITE, RECV} then
21: for (S′
i,e′
i)∈ LST do:
22: if Oi exists in e′
i then
23: Delete (S′
i,e′
i) in LST
24: end if
25: end for
26: end if
27: end for
4.4.3 Non-viable Entity Pruning
After ﬁltering out redundant semantics, we maintain a node
tree to contain the relationship of all processes for efﬁcient
forensic analysis. For all process entities that do not have a
parent node (i.e., independent processes), we connect them
by creating a virtual root process. In order to keep a sta-
ble memory overhead when the system runs for a long time,
non-viable entity pruning is used to reduce the number of
processes. As shown in Algorithm 2, if a process satisﬁes:
(1) it executes the exit event, (2) it does not have potential
harmful functionalities (PHF, it will be introduced in Sec-
tion 4.5.2) and child nodes (When the child node has PHFs,
the deletion of the parent node will affect the forensic anal-
ysis), this process will be pruned from the node tree.
Moreover, we move inactive ﬁle nodes (in this article, in-
activity is deﬁned as no change for more than 5 minutes, and
the time interval can be changed according to actual needs)
to the disk to further reduce the memory overhead. They
will be took out from the disk in real-time when needed.
Algorithm 2 Data Compaction of Non-viable Entity Prun-
ing
Input:
Streaming data (only EXIT events) in chronological order. Each
event ei contains a subject Pi
Output:
Whether the process is pruned
Initialize:
For all processes are stored in a Process Tree P T
1: for ei∈ streaming events do:
2: if ei∈{ EXIT} then
3: if isleaf (Pi) & ¬P HF (Pi) then
4: prune Pi
5: end if
6: end if
7: end for
4.5. APT Detection Framework
In this section, we ﬁrst introduce the insight for label-
based APT detection. Then we explain the deﬁnition of
labels and label delivery rules based on ATT&CK model.
Finally we give the attack judgment rules.
4.5.1 Insight for Label-based APT Detection
Due to the persistence of APT attacks, the detection meth-
ods based on the dependency graph suffer from efﬁciency
and memory problems. To detect long-term APT attacks
with a constant level of memory overhead, we develop vari-
ous adaptable labels based on ATT&CK model, and transfer
contextual semantics between entities through control ﬂow
and data ﬂow. Control ﬂow mainly refers to the process
creation relationship. When the attack involves multiple
processes, tracking the untrusted control ﬂow can realize
the association of multiple malicious processes. Data ﬂow
refers to the dependence of data content, which reﬂects the
ﬂow path of data. The data ﬂow can be divided into un-
trusted data ﬂow and high-value data ﬂow. The former one
reﬂects the ﬂow path of external untrusted data, which is of-
ten the intrusion path of suspicious codes; the latter one re-
ﬂects the escape path of high-value contents in the attack af-
ter being stolen. Untrusted control ﬂow, untrusted data ﬂow,
and high-value data ﬂow reﬂect the nature of the attack. By
tracing the above three information ﬂows, analysts can eas-
ily characterize the attack chain. However, when the sub-
ject/object of system events are different, events of the same
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
type may have different semantics. For example, we con-
sider the ﬁle reading event, reading a downloaded ﬁle (R1)
represents an untrusted data ﬂow, while reading a text doc-
ument in a user’s key directory (R2) represents a high-value
data ﬂow. The semantics of these two ﬁle reading events are
not the same. In the ATT&CK model, R1 is mostly the be-
havioral characteristic in the Initial Access stage of the APT
attack, which may lead to malicious code execution, while
R2 may be the Data Exﬁltration stage where the attacker
is stealing user information, which may eventually lead to
user information leakage. In order to solve the problems
above, we deﬁne a series of entity labels, as well as trans-
fer rules for labels between entities to visually describe the
APT attack. In summary, APTSHIELD gathers the se-
mantics of the complete attack chain into target entity
to realize the abstraction of large-scale attack features
with constant-level memory overhead.
4.5.2 Label Deﬁnition
(1) Process Labels. We divides process labels into two cat-
egories: status labels and behavior labels, as shown in Ta-
ble 2. The status labels represent the label that semantics
in the process will be passed to the child process with the
FORK event. The behavior labels indicate what the process
has done, and are used to accurately locate the threat. For
example, if a process has network connection, we label it
with P S1, for we can not trust the data from network. If
a process executes a command without being allowed, we
label this process with P B4. A detailed description of the
process label is in Appendix .1.
Table 2. Process label deﬁnition; including status labels and be-
havior labels.
Labels Description CategoryP S1 Process has network connection
Status
P S2 Process accesses to data in high-value data ﬂow nodesP S3 Process contains network dataP S4 Process loads or reads the uploaded ﬁle from networkP S5 Process interacts with non-existent ﬁlesP S6 Process reads the /etc/passwd ﬁleP S7 Process reads the .bashhistory ﬁleP B1 Process executes a ﬁle from network
Behavior
P B2 Process executes a sensitive ﬁleP B3 Process executes a sensitive commandP B4 Process has executed commands (for Webshell only)P B5 Process executes commands which can let others get the shellP B6 Process modiﬁes the /etc/crontab ﬁleP B7 Process modiﬁes the /etc/sudoers ﬁleP B8 Process reads high-value information
(2) File Labels. We divide ﬁle labels into two categories:
untrusted labels and high-value labels, as shown in Table
3. The untrusted ﬁles refer to the ﬁle containing untrusted
data from the network, and the high-value ﬁles refer to the
ﬁle containing sensitive data. For example, if a ﬁle contains
data from the network, we label it with F U2, for the un-
trsted data may cause an attack later (code execution). A
detailed description of the ﬁle label is in Appendix .2.
Some processes with speciﬁc labels may directly or indi-
rectly cause potential damage to system security. We deﬁne
them as potential harmful functionalities (PHF). In this pa-
per, we deﬁneP S2, 3, 5 and P B1, 2, 5 as PHF. Administra-
tors are able to add more labels to the PHF list to implement
strict control.
Table 3. File label deﬁnition; including untrusted labels and high-
value labels.
Labels Description CategoryF U1 File is uploaded
Untrusted
F U2 File contains data from the networkF U3 File does not existF U4 File is written by the Webshell attackF U5 File is written by the RAT attackF U6 File is written by the Living-off-the-land attackF H1 File that can control scheduled tasks such as /etc/crontab
High-valueF H2 File that can control permissions such as /etc/sudoersF H3 File that holds sensitive information such as /etc/passwdF H4 File that saves historical commands such as .bashhistoryF H5 File is written by process that have read sensitive information
4.5.3 Event Selection
After deﬁning the labels of system entities (i.e., processes
and ﬁles), it is necessary to clarify effective events between
entities in order to facilitate the transfer and aggregation of
contextual information. Inspired by [27, 29], the events in-
volved are a part of the events that exist in the Linux ker-
nel data collected by auditd, including process events such
as fork, execute, LoadELF, ﬁle operation, entity attribute
modiﬁcation, network operation, etc.. A list of the events
we used is in Appendix .3.
4.5.4 Transfer Rules
To gather the semantics of the complete APT attack chain
into target entity, we design a label transfer rule based on
the ATT&CK model, as shown in Table 4. We divide APT
attacks into ﬁve major stages, which are initial access, un-
trusted execution, lateral movement, suspicious behavior,
and data exﬁltration. Furthermore, the stage of suspicious
behavior contains persistent stronghold, privilege escala-
tion, credential access, and information collection. In Ta-
ble 4, label 1 and label 2 represent semantic labels carried
by system entities, and the direction represents the ﬂow di-
rection of system events, which is also the label transmis-
sion direction. For example, if a process with label P S1
writes a ﬁle, we label the ﬁle with F U2, when a ﬁle with
label F U2 is accessed by a process, we label the process
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
with P S3. A detailed description of the transfer rules is in
Appendix .4. If a certain process contains some labels in
above ﬁve stages, the process has the possibility to repre-
sent an ongoing APT attack, the APT judge rules will be
described in Section 4.5.5.
From the ATT&CK model and TTP, it is known that each
stage of the APT attack represents a tactic, and a tactic (i.e.,
initial access, untrusted execution, etc.) contains different
techniques. Analysts can expand Table 4 according to dif-
ferent techniques under speciﬁc tactics.
4.5.5 Judgement Rules
The attack judgment rules used in this paper are listed in
Table 5. The last column speciﬁes the prerequisites for the
transfer rule to match. The prerequisites can specify condi-
tions on the parameters of the alarm being matched. The ad-
ministrator is able to judge whether an attack has occurred
based on the different labels contained in the process. In
other words, the labels of different entities on the attack
chain will eventually come to a process through transfer and
aggregation, when labels contained in the process match
target judgment rules, the corresponding alerts (threats or
APTs) will be reported to the administrator. For example, a
process that contains the Webshell/RAT/Living-off-the-land
attack labels, as well as the label P B8 may be the alert
point of APT attack. A detailed description of the judge-
ment rules is in Appendix .5.
5. Design Experiments
In our evaluation, we ﬁrst describe the experimental
setup. Then we introduce the effectiveness of data com-
paction, the accuracy and effectiveness of APT detection,
and the overhead of the system in turn.
5.1. Experimental Setup
Our datasets consist of two parts, one is collected from
our laboratory, and the other is from Darpa Engagement.
Table 6 summarizes the property of our dataset.
5.1.1 The Dataset from Laboratory
For the data from our laboratory, two participants (red team)
in our laboratory were responsible for instrumenting OS and
carrying out attack campaigns (on three hosts with Ubuntu
16.04), while the other two participants (blue team) per-
formed data collection, data compaction and attack detec-
tion in a real-time manner. The benign background activ-
ities were also being carried out on the machines used for
experimentation, such as web browsing, chatting, and docu-
ment editing. In order to get an adversarial engagement, the
blue team had no prior knowledge of the attacks planned
by the red team. As shown in Table 6, L-1, L-2, and L-3
were the APT datasets generated by simulating real scenes
in our laboratory, and the collection of each dataset lasted
for 24 hours. Each dataset contained normal data and attack
data. The attacks contained in above three datasets (L-1,
L-2, and L-3) are: Webshell attack from the backdoored
Apache, Remote Access Trojan from the phishing website,
and Living-off-the-land attack from vulnerable service. A
detailed description of attacks contained in L-1, L-2, and
L-3 are in Appendix .6.
5.1.2 The Dataset from Darpa Engagement
For the data from Darpa Engagement, two hosts with
Ubuntu 14.04 were deployed in advance for the data col-
lection (blue team) and the APT attack (red team). Note
that Blue team had no prior knowledge about the attack pre-
pared by the red team. Similarity, when the red team was
attacking the host, other activities of normal programs on
the host were also proceeding simultaneously. Benign ac-
tivities contained browsing websites, downloading and ex-
ecuting binary ﬁles, reading/writing emails and documents,
etc.. Overall, more than 99% of the events in the dataset
had nothing to do with attacks. As shown in Table 6, E-1
and E-2 are the APT datasets generated by Darpa Engage-
ment, and the collection of each dataset lasted for 168 hours.
Each dataset contained normal data and attack data. The at-
tacks contained in above two datasets (E-1 and E-2) are: In-
formation gather and exﬁltration, Malicious ﬁle download
and execute, and In-memory attack with ﬁrefox. A detailed
description of attacks contained in E-1 and E-2 are in Ap-
pendix .7.
5.2. System Performance
Here, we will introduce the effectiveness of data com-
paction, the accuracy and effectiveness of APT detection,
and the system overhead.
5.2.1 Performance of Data Compaction
(1) Effectiveness of Redundant Semantics Skipping
In real-time APT detection, the strategy of redundant se-
mantics skipping is adopted to reduce events with repetitive
semantics. It can be carried out in real-time streaming data
to ensure the performance of the detection system (i.e., re-
duce memory overhead and running time). Table 7 gives
results of redundant semantics skipping.
For the datasets (L-1, L-2, and L-3) from our labora-
tory, each dataset contains about 1000K events, and about
350K pieces of events can be skipped on average through
the redundant semantic skipping strategy. In the real-time
APT detection, APTSHIELD can save 1000ms-2500ms
for every 1000K samples. For the datasets (E-1 and E-
2) from Darpa Engagement, the datasets contain about
28000K-34000K events, and about 6000K pieces of events
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Table 4. Transfer rules. Label 1 and label 2 represent semantic labels carried by system entities, and the direction represents the ﬂow
direction of system events. D stands for front to back, R stands for back to front.
Stage Label1 Event Label2Direction Description
Initial Access
P S1 Write F U2 D A network-connected process wrote a ﬁleP S3 Read F U2 R The process reads a ﬁle containing network dataP S3 Write F U2 D The process, which has accessed network data, writes these data to ﬁlesP S4 Read/MmapF U1 R The ﬁle uploaded by the user is loaded or read by processesP S5 Read/LoadElf/MmapF U3 R The process interacts with non-existent ﬁles
Untrusted ExecutionP B1 ExecuteF U2 R The ﬁle, which contains the codes from the network, is executedP B1 LoadElfF U2 R The ﬁle, which contains the codes from the network, is loadedP B1 Write F U2 D The process, which has executed the codes from the network, writes ﬁles
Lateral Movement
P B4 Write F U4 D The process, which has caused the Webshell attack, writes ﬁlesP B4 Read/MmapF U4 R The process reads or loads ﬁles written by WebshellP B1 Write F U5 D The process, which has caused the RAT attack, writes ﬁlesP B1 Read F U5 R The process reads ﬁles written by RATP S5 Write F U6 D The process, which has caused the Living-off-the-land attack, writes ﬁlesP S5 Read F U6 R The process reads ﬁles written by Living-off-the-land
Suspicious Behavior
Persistent StrongholdP B6 Write F H1 R The process writes ﬁles that can control scheduled tasks such as /etc/crontabPrivilege EscalationP B7 Write F H2 R The process writes ﬁles that can control permissions such as /etc/sudoersCredential AccessP S6 Read F H3 R The process reads ﬁles that hold sensitive information such as /etc/passwdInformation CollectionP S7 Read F H4 R The process reads ﬁles that save historical commands such as .bashhistory
Data ExﬁltrationP B6−7|P S6−7 Write F H5 D The process writes high-value data to ﬁlesP B8 Read F H5 R The process reads ﬁles that contain high-value data
Table 5. Judgement rules for different attacks (threats and APTs). The prerequisites can specify conditions on the parameters of the alarm
being matched.
Alert Condition Prerequisites
Download&ExecutionP B1
init(p) =match(p.name,”/(scp|wget)/”)→p.labels.add(”P S1”)propRd(p, f) =if(p.labels contains”P S1”and e==W rite)→f.labels.add(”F U2”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F U2”and e==Execute)→p.labels.add(”P B1”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P B1”)→Alert(Download&Execution)
Webshell P S4&P B4
init(f) =match(f.name,”/(upload)/”)→p.labels.add(”F U1”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F U1”and e==ReadorM map)→p.labels.add(”P S4”)inti(p) =match(p.name,”∗”)→p.labels.add(”P B4”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P S4&P B4”)→Alert(W ebshell)
RAT P B1&P B5 init(p) =match(p.name,”/(sh|bash)/”)→p.labels.add(”P B5”)inti(p) =if(p cause alert(Download&Execution))→p.labels.add(”F U2”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P B1&P B5”)→Alert(RAT)
Living-off-the-landP S5&P B5
init(f) =match(f.name,”/(null)/”)→f.labels.add(”F U3”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F U3”and e==LoadorRead)→p.labels.add(”P S5”)init(p) =match(p.name,”/(sh|bash)/”)→p.labels.add(”P B5”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P S5&P B5”)→Alert(Living−of f−the−land)
Suspicious BehaviorP B6|P B7|P S6|P S7
init(f) =match(f.name,”/etc/crontab”)→f.labels.add(”F H1”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F H1”and e==W rite)→p.labels.add(”P B6”)init(f) =match(f.name,”/etc/sudoers”)→f.labels.add(”F H2”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F H2”and e==W rite)→p.labels.add(”P B7”)init(f) =match(f.name,”/etc/passwd”)→f.labels.add(”F H3”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F H2”and e==Read)→p.labels.add(”P S6”)init(f) =match(f.name,”.bashhistory”)→f.labels.add(”F H4”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F H2”and e==Read)→p.labels.add(”P S7”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P B6|P B7|P S6|P S7”)→Alert(SuspiciousBehavior)
Data Exﬁltration P B8
init(p) =if(p cause alert(SuspeciousBehavior))→p.labels.add(”P B6|P B7|P S6|P S7”)propRd(p, f) =if(p.labels contains”P B6|P B7|P S6|P S7”and e==W rite)→f.labels.add(”F H5”)propRd(f, p) =if(f.labels contains”F H5”and e==Read)→p.labels.add(”P B8”)alert(p) =if(p.labels contains”P B8”)→Alert(DataExf iltration)APT ((P S4&P B4)|(P B1&P B5)|(P S5&P B5))&P B8alert(p) =if(p cause alert(W ebshell|RAT|Living−of f−the−land)and p.labels contains”P B8”)→Alert(AP T)
are able to be skipped on average through the redundant
semantic skipping strategy. Although the proportion of
skipped events has decreased compared with the data from
laboratory (down from 35% to 20%), the time saved per
1000K events has increased signiﬁcantly, reaching 7800ms-
11000ms.
We ﬁnd that APTSHIELD can save more time on the
Darpa Engagement dataset, the reason is that the process of
ﬁle reading and writing events takes more time, and there
are a large number of such events on the Darpa Engagement
dataset.
(2) Effectiveness of Non-viable Entity Pruning
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Table 6. Details of our Datasets. L stands for data from laboratory, and E stands for data from Darpa Engagement.
Dataset Duration (hours) Platform Source Attack Description
L-1 24 Ubuntu 16.04 (64 bit) Laboratory Webshell attack from the backdoored Apache
L-2 24 Ubuntu 16.04 (64 bit) Laboratory Remote Access Trojan from the phishing website
L-3 24 Ubuntu 16.04 (64 bit) Laboratory Living-off-the-land attack from vulnerable service
E-1 168 Ubuntu 14.04 (64 bit) Darpa Engagement Information gather and exﬁltration &
Malicious ﬁle download and execute
E-2 168 Ubuntu 14.04 (64 bit) Darpa Engagement In-memory attack with ﬁrefox
Table 7. Results of Redundant Semantics Skipping.
Dataset Sum of EventsSkip of EventsSaved Time (ms)/1000K
L-1 1142480 381885 1716
L-2 1070143 357307 1038
L-3 1006603 335721 2514
E-1 27978043 6019924 7790
E-2 33743425 6016741 11050
As the running time increases, incremental entities will
be saved. However, some non-viable entities will neither
pose a threat nor affect the forensic analysis. Therefore, we
can delete these non-viable entities based on EXIT events
and PHF labels to reduce memory consumption. Results of
non-viable entities pruning are shown in Table 8. The re-
sults on different datasets show that with the growth of time
and the increase of entities, the proportion of pruned pro-
cesses is about 3% to 8%. Moreover, some inactive ﬁles
will be moved to the disk (inactivity is deﬁned as no change
for more than 5 minutes) for reducing overhead. We can
ﬁnd from Table 8 that the pruned ﬁles mainly depend on
the degree of interaction between ﬁles and processes in the
dataset. The reason ﬁle pruning ratio of L-3 and E-1 is rel-
atively high is because these two datasets contain a large
number of inactive temporary ﬁles. These temporary ﬁles
are all moved to disk. In addition, we also evaluate the CPU
and memory overhead of APTSHIELD with/without prun-
ing, which will be discussed in detail in Section 5.3.
Table 8. Results of Non-viable Entities Pruning. Sum stands for
the total number of entities (processes or ﬁles). Remain stands for
the number of entities (processes or ﬁles) remaining after being
pruned.
Dataset Prune for Process Prune for File
Sum Remain Pruning
Ratio (%)Sum Remain Pruning
Ratio (%)
L-1 125 121 3.2 144 138 4.2
L-2 91 84 7.7 255 247 3.1
L-3 127 119 6.3 138 53 61.6
E-1 16926 16226 4.1 1360 114 91.6
E-2 21673 20829 3.9 1232 1209 1.9
Table 9. Comparison with related work. L represents low, M rep-
resents medium, and H represents high.
Method Real-time Efﬁciency Overhead
APTSHIELD H H L
LCD (2016) [47] H L L
FD (2018) [25] L M H
GS (2021) [59] M H H
(3) Comparison with Related Work
In APTSHIELD, we use a data compaction method that
maintains global semantics to delete the equivalent infor-
mation ﬂow to the same target entity with low overhead by
using the semantic attributes of the source entity. In addi-
tion, our APT detection and data compaction can be per-
formed at the same time to ensure real-time performance.
As shown in Table 9, we compared APTSHIELD to other
existing data compaction methods from the following three
aspects: real-time performance, efﬁciency, and overhead.
LCD [47] considers the event compaction of the single
node in a real-time manner, but it does not link the con-
textual semantics, which could cause difﬁculty in forensics
analysis. Moreover, LCD cannot handle network events.
The input of FD [25] is the whole dependence graph, which
can only start after data collection is completed (i.e., FD
uses ofﬂine cached data). Also, FD cannot deal with events
of subprocess/thread. GS [59] is able to establish global de-
pendencies as FD does, but the compaction system of GS
does not have a discarding mechanism (e.g., the process-
ing of lengthy list ﬁelds, killed processes, and unused ﬁles).
As time increases, the real-time performance and efﬁciency
of the system will decrease. Our compaction method is able
to improve the efﬁciency of real-time APT detection and re-
duce data storage overhead for forensic analysis by adopting
redundant semantics skipping and non-viable entity prun-
ing. All in all, the requirements of real-time performance,
efﬁciency, and overhead can be jointly addressed by APT-
SHIELD. It outperforms all the above related methods.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
5.2.2 Accuracy and Effectiveness of APT Detection
In this section, we will explain how the APT detection
framework can effectively detect attacks in Table 6.
L-1: Webshell attack from the backdoored Apache .
The APT attack chain in dataset L-1 is shown in Figure 3.
The process of the APT detection framework is as follows:
(1) The folder directory /var/www/html/uploads/ in
the web service is to save uploaded ﬁles. When the Web-
shell ﬁle shell.php has been uploaded to this directory by
the Apache vulnerability, we lable this ﬁle with F U1 ac-
cording to the ﬁle label deﬁnition (time point 1-3).
(2) If the ﬁle shell.php is accessed or loaded by a pro-
cess, the process will be labeled with P S4 by the trans-
fer rule (P S4, READ/M M AP, F U1, R) (time point 4).
Note that the Apache in Figure 3 is a subprocess, which will
not cause label taint (i.e., other behaviors of apache will not
be labeled).
(3) When a process with P S4 executes any com-
mands, the process will be labeled with P B4 (time
point 5-6). In order to track the spread of attacks af-
ter the invasion, APTSHIELD will label ﬁles accessed
by the process (with P B4) as F U4 according to the
transfer rule (P B4, W RIT E, F U4, D), which indicates
that these ﬁles may be threatened by the subsequent
proliferation of Webshell. When the ﬁle is accessed
by other processes, the semantics will be passed back
to the process (labeled with P B4) by the transfer rule
(P B4, READ/M M AP, F U4, R), which makes subse-
quent inﬁltrations of Webshell fully recorded and detected.
(4) The process of Webshell ( P B4) writes a control-
lable script (/tmp/cleanup.sh), (/tmp/cleanup.sh)
will be labeled with F U4 by the transfer rule
(P B4, W RIT E, F U4, D) (time point 9 and 16).
(5) The script ( F U4) is loaded and executed
by a privileged process (/bin/sh), (/bin/sh)
will be labeled with P B4 by the transfer rule
(P B4, READ/M M AP, F U4, R), (/bin/sh) exe-
cutes nc to create command&control between the user and
the attacker (time point 17-23).
(6) The process sh (P B4) continues to access sensitive
ﬁles, such as /etc/crontab(F H1), /etc/sudoers(F H2),
/etc/passwd(F H3), and .bash history(F H4), it will be
labeled with the corresponding label (i.e., P B6, P B7,
P S6, and P S7) indicating that it has read or written these
sensitive ﬁles (time point 26-35).
(7) When a process sh has read or written sensitive
ﬁles that wants to pass high-value information out, the ﬁle
secret written by it will be labeled with F H5 (time point
36-38), indicating that the ﬁle secret may contain high-
value information (P S6−7/P B6−7, W RIT E, F H5, D).
(8) If another process cat subsequently accesses the ﬁle
with the F H5 label, it may be labeled with P B8 due to the
threat of data exﬁltration (P B8, READ, F H5, R) (time
point 39-40). Finally, the process that satisﬁes this series
of attack chains may generate the threat of APT attacks (in-
cluding Initial Access, Lateral Movement, Suspicious Be-
havior, and Data Exﬁltration). Therefore, it is reported that
there may be APT which uses Webshell as the entrance to
the process that contains labels of Webshell andP B8 at the
same time.
Figure 3. APT attack chain that uses Webshell as the entrance.
L-2: Remote Access Trojan from the phishing web-
site. For the APT in L-2, the detection ﬂow of APT-
SHIELD is as follows:
(1) Through a phishing link, the target host downloads
the Trojan ﬁle(vpn.elf ). Since the ﬁle is transmitted over
the Internet, it will be labeled with F U2.
(2) After a period of time, the ﬁle (vpn.elf ) is exe-
cuted, and the target process will be labeled with P S1 by
the transfer rule (P S1, EXECU T E, F U 2, R), indicating
that the process executes ﬁles originating from the Internet
may cause a threat.
(3) Subsequent attacks and proliferation are the same as
they are in the Webshell experiment. Finally, it is reported
that there may be APT which uses RAT as the entrance for
the process that contains labels of RAT and P B8 at the
same time.
L-3: Living-off-the-land attack from vulnerable ser-
vice. For the APT in L-3, the detection ﬂow of APT-
SHIELD is as follows:
(1) Through an exploit script, the threatening process
will interact with a ﬁle named”(null)”. Therefore, the non-
existent ﬁle will be labeled withF U3.
(2) When a process interacts with the ﬁle, the pro-
cess will be labeled with P S5 by the transfer rule
(P S5, READ/M M AP/LOADELF, F U3, R). When
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
the process containing the label P S5 continues to execute
the sh or bash command, it will be labeled with P B5,
which means that the process has got the shell and carried
out a in-memory attack.
(3) Subsequent attacks and proliferations are the same as
they are in the Webshell experiment. Finally, it is reported
that there may be APT that uses Living-off-the-land as the
entrance for the process that contains labels of Living-off-
the-land and P B8 at the same time.
E-1: Information gather and exﬁltration . The detec-
tion ﬂow of APTSHIELD is as follows:
(1) The ﬁle (/etc/passwd) containing sensitive informa-
tion are labeled with F H3.
(2) When a process reads this ﬁle, the pro-
cess will be labeled with P S6 by the transfer rule
(P S6, READ, F H3, R).
(3) The process writes the high-value data on
/dev/pts/1, /dev/pts/1 will be labeled with F H5 by the
transfer rule (P S6, W RIT E, F H5, D). By this way, the
user may have exﬁltrated this information.
E-1: Malicious ﬁle download and execute . The attack
chain is shown in Figure 4. The detection ﬂow of APT-
SHIELD is as follows:
(1) A ﬁle named ccleaner is downloaded to the local
through scp, this ﬁle will be labeled with F U2. Because
the process that uses the scp command is likely to include
an internet connection P S1, the ﬁle will be labeled with
F U2 by the transfer rule (P S1, W RIT E, F U2, D).
(2) After the ﬁle is executed by the process, the
process will be labeled with P B1 by the transfer rule
(P B1, EXECU T E, F U 2, R). Therefore, the process
containing the P B1 label may pose a threat (download and
execution).
Figure 4. APT attack chain that uses ccleaner as the entrance.
E-2: In-memory attack with ﬁrefox . The attack chain
is shown in Figure 5. The detection ﬂow of APTSHIELD
is as follows:
(1) Use Firefox’s write-executable memory space to
cause in-memory attacks through sshd process. The
sshd process interacts with the ”/(null)” ﬁle, and
the process is labeled with P S5 by the transfer rule
(P S5, READ/M M AP/LOADELF, F U3, R).
(2) Later, the process with P S5 gets the shell, it will be
labeled with (P B5). Processes that contain the P B5 and
P S5 tags may cause the threat of in-memory attacks.
(3) Finally, a ﬁle named hc was uploaded and executed
through the sshd in-memory attack. The detection ﬂow is
the same as the ccleaner attack.
Figure 5. APT attack chain that uses in-memory attack as the en-
trance.
5.3. Overhead of APTSHIELD
5.3.1 CPU and Memory Usage
The CPU and memory usage of APTSHIELD for ﬁve dif-
ferent datasets are shown in Table 10. We use performance
monitor to record the average overhead of the system while
it is running. Here, the CPU usage means the usage rate
on a single-core CPU (thread). In the absence of prun-
ing, the average single-core CPU usage of APTSHIELD
is 5.3%, 5.8%, 4.7%, 9.7%, and 10.1% on L-1, L-2, L-3, E-
1, and E-2, respectively, while the average memory usage
is 90.1 MB, 99.7 MB, 85.6 MB, 117.7 MB, and 130.3 MB
on L-1, L-2, L-3, E-1, and E-2, respectively. By deploy-
ing non-viable entity pruning (to further reduce the system
overhead), the average single-core CPU usage is reduced
by 1.1%, 0.7%, 0.4%, 2.0%, and 1.6% on L-1, L-2, L-3,
E-1, and E-2, respectively, while the average memory us-
age is reduced by 14.8 MB, 22.6 MB, 14.9 MB, 22.2 MB,
and 19.7 MB on L-1, L-2, L-3, E-1, and E-2, respectively.
All in all, in the case of real-time detection, APTSHIELD
can maintain low CPU usage and satisfactory memory over-
head.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Table 10. The average overhead of APTSHIELD. By deploying
non-viable entity pruning, the overheads of CPU and memory are
reduced.
Dataset Without Pruning With Pruning
CPU (%) Memory (MB)CPU (%) Memory (MB)
L-1 5.3 90.1 4.2% 75.3
L-2 5.8 99.7 5.1% 77.1
L-3 4.7 85.6 4.3% 70.7
E-1 9.7 117.7 7.7% 95.5
E-2 10.1 130.3 8.5% 110.6
5.3.2 Real-Time Performance
We test the real-time performance of the APTSHIELD
by comparing data consumption rate and data generation
rate. In the experiment, the personnel in our laboratory per-
formed normal operations on Linux host for 600 seconds,
making the collected content as similar as possible to ﬁve
datasets (L-1, L-2, L-3, E-1, and E-2). Results are shown in
Figure 6.
Figure 6. Real-time Performance of APTSHIELD. Comparison
of data consumption rate and data generation rate.
In Figure 6, the line on the right shows that about 230K
pieces of data (contain entities and events) are generated
and transmitted in real-time within ten minutes. The smooth
phase of the line in Figure 6 stands for the idle state of
the host, while the steep phase of the line stands for the
busy state of the host, and the transmission rate is about 400
per second. The other line represents the consumption rate
of APTSHIELD. About 213K pieces of data can be pro-
cessed within 5 seconds, and the average processing rate is
about 42K per second. The consumption rate is far greater
than the generation rate, which shows the real-time of APT-
SHIELD is feasible.
5.3.3 Comparison with Related Work
We compare APTSHIELD with state-of-the-art studies to
show the advantage of our work.
(1) Conan [29] . Conan only considers the data com-
paction in the storage stage, while APTSHIELD can per-
form compaction and detection at the same time. In addi-
tion, APTSHIELD also prunes invalid/unused entities to
reduce overhead. In our experiment, the average memory
usage of Conan on the dataset from laboratory (L-1, L-2,
and L-3) is about 90 MB. For the dataset from Darpa En-
gagement, the average memory usage of Conan is about 140
MB. Compared with APTSHIELD, the memory overhead
of Conan is increased by about 30% to 50%, and the growth
rate of CPU usage reaches to 10% to 20%. Furthermore,
APTSHIELD has a better semantic interpretation and good
detection efﬁciency for in-memory attacks.
(2) Sleuth [27] & Holmes [28] . According to the de-
scription in Section 2, Sleuth will read all the data into the
memory at one time during detection, which cannot ensure
real-time performance. The memory Sleuth used is related
to the size of the dataset. In our experiment, the memory
usage of Sleuth on L-1, L-2 and L-3 ranges from 80 MB to
160 MB, while on E-1 and E-2, it ranges from 300 MB to
400 MB. For Holmes, authors in [28] showed that a nearly
linear growth in memory consumption. In our experiment,
the memory usage of Holmes on L-1, L-2 and L-3 ranges
from 90 MB to 150 MB, while on E-1 and E-2, it ranges
from 500 MB to 1 GB. Compared with APTSHIELD, the
memory overhead of Sleuth and Holmes is increased by at
least 60% and 20%, respectively. APTSHIELD has a good
real-time performance and can quickly respond to threats
that occur in the system.
6. Conclusion & Discussion
In this paper, we design a stable, efﬁcient, and real-time
APT detection system, called APTSHIELD. Unlike pre-
vious studies with the problems of the weak data source
integrity, large data processing overhead and poor real-
time performance, APTSHIELD can collect reliable, sta-
ble and semantically rich data sources via audit, reduce the
overhead of the detection system in real-time via redun-
dant semantics skipping and non-viable node pruning, and
carry out real-time APT attack response and alarm through
the transfer and aggregation of labels based on ATT&CK
model. Experimental results on both laboratory and Darpa
Engagement show that APTSHIELD can effectively detect
web vulnerability attacks, ﬁle-less attacks and remote ac-
cess trojan attacks, at the same time has a low false positive
rate, which adds far more value than the existing frontier
work. And we will discuss the limitations and improve-
ments of our work.
6.1. False Positive
Although APTSHIELD did not show any false positives
in the experiment of this article, we still need to discuss the
following scenarios:
Normal Meta behavior . Since an APT attack is com-
posed of multiple different behaviors, each individual be-
havior (we call it meta behavior) does not represent the oc-
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
currence of an attack. For example, READ events to high-
value ﬁles such as/etc/passwd may occur during the APT
attack stage (when the user is authenticated, /etc/passwd
will be accessed), but related processes should not be iden-
tiﬁed as threats. In order to prevent single-point false pos-
itives, APTSHIELD adopts the method of contextual se-
mantic transfer to detect the APT attack chain. Analysts
can set stringent judgment rules to avoid false positives.
Taint explosion. Recall that through the transfer and
aggregation of labels, we are able to correlate the context
information of the attack. However, this method is prone to
cause taint explosion (e.g., polluting the daemon process of
the system at the entry point, causing all entities interacting
with the process to be polluted). A lot of false positives will
occur due to taint explosion. In order to solve this prob-
lem, we can formulate stricter labeling and transfer rules
to ensure that the daemon process is not easily marked as
suspicious when it has not been invaded or modiﬁed.
6.2. False Negative
Reducing the false negative rate is a major challenge
for APT detection, because APT attacks are completely
unknown. APTSHIELD uses different tactical stages in
the ATT&CK model to describe a complete APT attack.
In APT detection, APTSHIELD can reﬂect the nature of
the attack by tracking untrusted data ﬂow, untrusted con-
trol ﬂow, and high-value data ﬂow. However, for some
alternative attacks, such as open source software supply
chain attacks (i.e., to inject malicious code into open source
software packages in order to compromise dependent sys-
tems further down the chain) [62]. Some well-known open
source softwares may be whitelisted by system administra-
tors, allowing them to be released at the system entry point.
To solve this problem, we can combine with code depen-
dency analysis at the entry point to label unsafe factors and
reduce false negatives.
References
[1] What Is Stuxnet. https : / / www . mcafee . com /
enterprise / en - hk / security - awareness /
ransomware/what-is-stuxnet.html. 1
[2] BlackEnergy APT Attacks in Ukraine. https://www.
kaspersky . com / resource - center / threats /
blackenergy. 1
[3] Missed Alarms and 40 Million Stolen Credit Card Numbers:
How Target Blew It. https://www.bloomberg.com/
news/articles/2014-03- 13/target-missed-
warnings - in - epic - hack - of - credit - card -
data. 1
[4] APT trends report Q3 2020. https://securelist.
com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204/ . 1
[5] APT Groups Target Firms Working on COVID-19 Vac-
cines. https : / / www . bankinfosecurity . com /
microsoft-warning-a-15363 . 1
[6] Alexander D Bolton and Christine M Anderson-Cook. Apt
malware static trace analysis through bigrams and graph edit
distance. Statistical Analysis and Data Mining: The ASA
Data Science Journal, 10(3):182–193, 2017. 1, 4
[7] Giuseppe Laurenza, Leonardo Aniello, Riccardo Lazzeretti,
and Roberto Baldoni. Malware triage based on static features
and public apt reports. In International Conference on Cyber
Security Cryptography and Machine Learning , pages 288–
305. Springer, 2017. 1, 4
[8] Donglan Liu, Hao Zhang, Hao Yu, Xin Liu, Yong Zhao, and
Guodong Lv. Research and application of apt attack defense
and detection technology based on big data technology. In
2019 IEEE 9th International Conference on Electronics In-
formation and Emergency Communication (ICEIEC), pages
1–4. IEEE, 2019. 1, 4
[9] Ishai Rosenberg, Guillaume Sicard, and Eli Omid David.
Deepapt: nation-state apt attribution using end-to-end deep
neural networks. In International Conference on Artiﬁcial
Neural Networks, pages 91–99. Springer, 2017. 1, 4
[10] Guodong Zhao, Ke Xu, Lei Xu, and Bo Wu. Detecting apt
malware infections based on malicious dns and trafﬁc analy-
sis. IEEE access, 3:1132–1142, 2015. 1, 4
[11] Lu Huang, Jingfeng Xue, Weijie Han, Zixiao Kong, and Ze-
qun Niu. Detection of malicious domains in apt via mining
massive dns logs. In International Conference on Machine
Learning for Cyber Security, pages 140–152. Springer, 2020.
1, 4
[12] Natasha Arjumand Shoaib Mirza, Haider Abbas, Far-
rukh Aslam Khan, and Jalal Al Muhtadi. Anticipating ad-
vanced persistent threat (apt) countermeasures using collab-
orative security mechanisms. In 2014 International Sym-
posium on Biometrics and Security Technologies (ISBAST) ,
pages 129–132. IEEE, 2014. 1, 4
[13] Amin Kharaz, Sajjad Arshad, Collin Mulliner, William
Robertson, and Engin Kirda. {UNVEIL}: A large-scale,
automated approach to detecting ransomware. In 25th
{USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 16) ,
pages 757–772, 2016. 1, 4
[14] What Is Endpoint Detection and Response. https :
/ / www . mcafee . com / enterprise / zh -
cn / security - awareness / endpoint / what -
is-endpoint-detection-and-response.html .
1
[15] 2020 Gartner Market Guide for Network Detection and Re-
sponse. https://www.gigamon.com/resources/
resource - library / analyst - industry -
reports / 2020 - gartner - market - guide - for -
network-detection-and-response.html . 1
[16] Transparent Computing Program. https://github.
com/darpa-i2o/Transparent-Computing. 2
[17] Trustwave Global Security Report. https :
/ / www . trustwave . com / en - us / resources /
library / documents / 2020 - trustwave -
global-security-report/. 2
[18] Kyu Hyung Lee, Xiangyu Zhang, and Dongyan Xu. Loggc:
garbage collecting audit log. In Proceedings of the 2013
ACM SIGSAC conference on Computer & communications
security, pages 1005–1016, 2013. 2, 3, 5
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
[19] Kyu Hyung Lee, Xiangyu Zhang, and Dongyan Xu. High
accuracy attack provenance via binary-based execution par-
tition. In NDSS, 2013. 2, 4
[20] Shiqing Ma, Xiangyu Zhang, and Dongyan Xu. Protracer:
Towards practical provenance tracing by alternating between
logging and tainting. In NDSS, 2016. 2, 4
[21] Shiqing Ma, Juan Zhai, Fei Wang, Kyu Hyung Lee, Xiangyu
Zhang, and Dongyan Xu. {MPI}: Multiple perspective at-
tack investigation with semantic aware execution partition-
ing. In 26th{USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX}
Security 17), pages 1111–1128, 2017. 2, 4
[22] Yonghwi Kwon, Fei Wang, Weihang Wang, Kyu Hyung Lee,
Wen-Chuan Lee, Shiqing Ma, Xiangyu Zhang, Dongyan Xu,
Somesh Jha, Gabriela F Ciocarlie, et al. Mci: Modeling-
based causality inference in audit logging for attack investi-
gation. In NDSS, 2018. 2, 4
[23] Yonghwi Kwon, Dohyeong Kim, William Nick Sumner,
Kyungtae Kim, Brendan Saltaformaggio, Xiangyu Zhang,
and Dongyan Xu. Ldx: Causality inference by lightweight
dual execution. In Proceedings of the Twenty-First Inter-
national Conference on Architectural Support for Program-
ming Languages and Operating Systems , pages 503–515,
2016. 2, 4
[24] Wajih Ul Hassan, Lemay Aguse, Nuraini Aguse, Adam
Bates, and Thomas Moyer. Towards scalable cluster auditing
through grammatical inference over provenance graphs. In
Network and Distributed Systems Security Symposium, 2018.
2
[25] Md Nahid Hossain, Junao Wang, Oﬁr Weisse, R Sekar,
Daniel Genkin, Boyuan He, Scott D Stoller, Gan Fang, Frank
Piessens, Evan Downing, et al. Dependence-preserving
data compaction for scalable forensic analysis. In 27th
{USENIX} Security Symposium ({USENIX} Security 18) ,
pages 1723–1740, 2018. 2, 4, 5, 8, 13
[26] Wajih Ul Hassan, Adam Bates, and Daniel Marino. Tacti-
cal provenance analysis for endpoint detection and response
systems. In 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), pages 1172–1189. IEEE, 2020. 2, 4
[27] Md Nahid Hossain, Sadegh M Milajerdi, Junao Wang,
Birhanu Eshete, Rigel Gjomemo, R Sekar, Scott Stoller,
and VN Venkatakrishnan. {SLEUTH}: Real-time attack
scenario reconstruction from {COTS} audit data. In 26th
{USENIX} Security Symposium, pages 487–504, 2017. 2, 5,
10, 16
[28] Sadegh M Milajerdi, Rigel Gjomemo, Birhanu Eshete, Ra-
machandran Sekar, and VN Venkatakrishnan. Holmes: real-
time apt detection through correlation of suspicious infor-
mation ﬂows. In 2019 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP), pages 1137–1152. IEEE, 2019. 2, 5, 16
[29] Chunlin Xiong, Tiantian Zhu, Weihao Dong, Linqi Ruan,
Runqing Yang, Yan Chen, Yueqiang Cheng, Shuai Cheng,
and Xutong Chen. Conan: A practical real-time apt detec-
tion system with high accuracy and efﬁciency. IEEE Trans-
actions on Dependable and Secure Computing , 2020. 2, 4,
5, 10, 16
[30] MITRE ATT&CK. https://attack.mitre.org/. 2
[31] Jiazhong Lu, Xiaosong Zhang, Wang Junfeng, and Ying
Lingyun. Apt trafﬁc detection based on time transform.
In 2016 International Conference on Intelligent Transporta-
tion, Big Data & Smart City (ICITBS) , pages 9–13. IEEE,
2016. 3
[32] Branka Stojanovi ´c, Katharina Hofer-Schmitz, and Ulrike
Kleb. Apt datasets and attack modeling for automated detec-
tion methods: A review. Computers & Security, 92:101734,
2020. 3
[33] Yunfei Su, Mengjun Li, Chaojing Tang, and Rongjun Shen.
A framework of apt detection based on dynamic analysis.
In 2015 4th National Conference on Electrical, Electron-
ics and Computer Engineering , pages 1047–1053. Atlantis
Press, 2015. 3
[34] Yuan Wang, Yongjun Wang, Jing Liu, and Zhijian Huang. A
network gene-based framework for detecting advanced per-
sistent threats. In 2014 Ninth International Conference on
P2P , Parallel, Grid, Cloud and Internet Computing , pages
97–102. IEEE, 2014. 3
[35] Jaeyeon Jung and Yu Zhu. Sensitive data tracking using dy-
namic taint analysis, Nov. 18 2014. US Patent 8,893,280.
3
[36] Stephen Yang, Seo Jin Park, and John Ousterhout. Nanolog:
A nanosecond scale logging system. In 2018{USENIX} An-
nual Technical Conference, pages 335–350, 2018. 3
[37] Apache Log4j 2. http://logging.apache.org/
log4j/2.x/. 3
[38] Spdlog: A Super fast C++ logging library. https://
github.com/gabime/spdlog. 3
[39] glog: Google Logging Module. https://github:com/
google/glog. 3
[40] Boost C++ libraries. https://github:com/google/
glog. 3
[41] Auditd. https://linux.die.net/man/8/auditd.
3
[42] Sysdig. https://github.com/draios/sysdig. 3
[43] Ftrace. https://web.ftrace.com.
[44] Lttng. https://lttng.org. 3
[45] Auditbeat. https://www.elastic.co/cn/beats/
auditbeat. 3
[46] Yutao Tang, Ding Li, Zhichun Li, Mu Zhang, Kangkook Jee,
Xusheng Xiao, Zhenyu Wu, Junghwan Rhee, Fengyuan Xu,
and Qun Li. Nodemerge: Template based efﬁcient data re-
duction for big-data causality analysis. In Proceedings of the
2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Commu-
nications Security, pages 1324–1337, 2018. 4
[47] Zhang Xu, Zhenyu Wu, Zhichun Li, Kangkook Jee, Jungh-
wan Rhee, Xusheng Xiao, Fengyuan Xu, Haining Wang, and
Guofei Jiang. High ﬁdelity data reduction for big data secu-
rity dependency analyses. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Se-
curity, pages 504–516, 2016. 4, 13
[48] Zhenyuan Li, Qi Alfred Chen, Runqing Yang, Yan Chen, and
Wei Ruan. Threat detection and investigation with system-
level provenance graphs: a survey. Computers & Security ,
page 102282, 2021. 4
[49] Xiaoyan Sun, Jun Dai, Peng Liu, Anoop Singhal, and John
Yen. Using bayesian networks for probabilistic identiﬁcation
of zero-day attack paths. IEEE Transactions on Information
Forensics and Security, 13(10):2506–2521, 2018. 4
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
[50] Xueyuan Han, Thomas Pasquier, Adam Bates, James Mick-
ens, and Margo Seltzer. Unicorn: Runtime provenance-
based detector for advanced persistent threats.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2001.01525, 2020. 4
[51] Samuel T King and Peter M Chen. Backtracking intrusions.
In Proceedings of the nineteenth ACM symposium on Oper-
ating systems principles, pages 223–236, 2003. 4, 5
[52] Yushan Liu, Mu Zhang, Ding Li, Kangkook Jee, Zhichun Li,
Zhenyu Wu, Junghwan Rhee, and Prateek Mittal. Towards
a timely causality analysis for enterprise security. In NDSS,
2018. 4
[53] Wajih Ul Hassan, Shengjian Guo, Ding Li, Zhengzhang
Chen, Kangkook Jee, Zhichun Li, and Adam Bates. Nodoze:
Combatting threat alert fatigue with automated provenance
triage. In Network and Distributed Systems Security Sympo-
sium, 2019. 4
[54] Shiqing Ma, Juan Zhai, Yonghwi Kwon, Kyu Hyung Lee,
Xiangyu Zhang, Gabriela Ciocarlie, Ashish Gehani, Vinod
Yegneswaran, Dongyan Xu, and Somesh Jha. Kernel-
supported cost-effective audit logging for causality track-
ing. In 2018{USENIX} Annual Technical Conference, pages
241–254, 2018. 4
[55] The Numbers Game: How Many Alerts are too Many to
Handle? https://www.fireeye.com/offers/
rpt-idc-the-numbers-game.html . 5
[56] Mathieu Barre, Ashish Gehani, and Vinod Yegneswaran.
Mining data provenance to detect advanced persistent
threats. In 11th International Workshop on Theory and Prac-
tice of Provenance (TaPP 2019), 2019. 4
[57] Ghita Berrada and James Cheney. Aggregating unsupervised
provenance anomaly detectors. In 11th International Work-
shop on Theory and Practice of Provenance (TaPP 2019) ,
2019. 4
[58] Sadegh M Milajerdi, Birhanu Eshete, Rigel Gjomemo, and
VN Venkatakrishnan. Poirot: Aligning attack behavior with
kernel audit records for cyber threat hunting. In Proceed-
ings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, pages 1795–1812, 2019. 5
[59] Tiantian Zhu, Jiayu Wang, Linqi Ruan, Chunlin Xiong,
Jinkai Yu, Yaosheng Li, Yan Chen, Mingqi Lv, and Tiem-
ing Chen. General, efﬁcient, and real-time data compaction
strategy for apt forensic analysis. IEEE Transactions on In-
formation Forensics and Security, 2021. 4, 5, 8, 13
[60] RSA loses SecureID tokens due to APT attack. https://
www.secplicity.org/2011/03/20/rsa-loses-
secureid-tokens-due-to-apt-attack . 6
[61] UnixBench. https : / / github . com / kdlucas /
byte-unixbench. 7
[62] Marc Ohm, Henrik Plate, Arnold Sykosch, and Michael
Meier. Backstabber’s knife collection: A review of open
source software supply chain attacks. In International Con-
ference on Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulner-
ability Assessment, pages 23–43. Springer, 2020. 17
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
.1. Explanation of Deﬁned Label in Table 2
P S1: If a process has network connection, we label it
with P S1, for we can’t trust the data from network.
P S2: If a process has accessed high-value data ﬂow
nodes, we label it with P S2, for the process holds sensi-
tive data.
P S3: If a process has data from the network, we label it
with P S3, e.g., the process reads the ﬁle downloaded from
network.
P S4: If a process has loaded or read the uploaded ﬁle
from network, which can cause Webshell attack, we label it
with P S4 for the uploaded ﬁle can’t be trusted.
P S5: If a process has interacted with non-existent ﬁles,
which can cause Living-off-the-land attack, we label it
with P S5 for accessing to non-existent ﬁles is a feature of
Living-off-the-land attacks.
P S6: If a process has read the ﬁle, which contains sensi-
tive information such as /etc/passwd, we label it P S6 for
it may cause leakage of sensitive information.
P S7: If a process has read the ﬁle, which saves historical
commands such as .bash history, we label it with P S7 for
the traces may be exploited.
P B1: If a process has executed a ﬁle from network, we
label the process with P B1, for the ﬁle can’t be trusted.
P B2: If a process has executed a sensitive ﬁle, we label
the process with P B2, for the ﬁle may cause attack.
P B3: If a process has executed a sensitive command, we
label the process with P B3, for the command may cause
attack.
P B4: If a process has executed any command, we label
the process with P B4, when the process is not allowed to
execute commands (for Webshell only).
P B5: If a process has executed shell command, we label
the process with P B5, for the process may reverse a shell
to others.
P B6: If a process has modiﬁed the ﬁle that control
scheduled tasks such as /etc/crontab, we label the process
with P B6, for it may cause persistent control.
P B7: If a process has modiﬁed the ﬁle that control per-
missions such as /etc/sudoers, we label the process with
P B7, for it may cause privilege escalation.
P B8: If a process has read high-value information, we
label the process with P B8, for it may cause data exﬁltra-
tion.
.2. Explanation of Deﬁned Label in Table 3
F U1: If a ﬁle is uploaded, we label the ﬁle with F U1,
for it can be untrustworthy.
F U2: If a ﬁle contains data from the network, we la-
bel the ﬁle with F U2, for the untrusted data may cause an
attack later (code execution).
F U3: If a ﬁle does not exist, we label it with F U3. In
a Living-off-the-land attack, accessing to a non-existent ﬁle
is marked as access to a (null) ﬁle.
F U4: If a ﬁle is written by the Webshell attack, we label
the ﬁle withF U4, in order to capture the attack chain with
webshell as the entry point.
F U5: If a ﬁle is written by the RAT attack, we label the
ﬁle withF U5, in order to capture the attack chain with RAT
as the entry point.
F U6: If a ﬁle is written by the Living-off-the-land at-
tack, we label the ﬁle with F U6, in order to capture the
attack chain with Living-off-the-land as the entry point.
F H1: If a ﬁle can control scheduled tasks such as
/etc/crontab, we label it with F H1.
F H2: If a ﬁle can control permissions such as
/etc/sudoers, we label it with F H2.
F H3: If a ﬁle holds sensitive information such as
/etc/passwd, we label it with F H3.
F H4: If a ﬁle saves historical commands such as
.bash history, we label it with F H4.
F H5: If a ﬁle is written by the process that have read
sensitive information, we label the ﬁle withF H5, for it may
cause data exﬁltration.
.3. Event Used in APTSHIELD and Explanation
Table 11. Event deﬁnition used in APTSHIELD.
Events Description
E0 File Read
E1 File Write
E2 Fork
E3 Execute
E4 LoadLibrary
E5 File Delete
E6 File Rename
E7 File Create
E8 File Property
E9 Exit
E10 LoadElf
E11 File Open
E12 File Close
E13 Fork with shared open ﬁle
E14 File Open with close-on-exec mark
E15 File Mmap
.4. Explanation of Deﬁned Transfer Rules in Table 4
P S1-E1-F U2-D: If a process with label P S1 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U2.
P S3-E0-F U2-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U2 is accessed by
a process, we label the process with P S3.

===== PAGE 21 =====
P S3-E1-F U2-D: If a process with label P S3 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U2.
P S4-E0/E15-F U1-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U1 is read or
loaded by a process, we label the process with P S4.
P S5-E0/E10/E15-F U3-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U3 is in-
teracted by a process, we label the process with P S5.
P B1-E3-F U2-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U2 is executed by
a process, we label the process with P B1.
P B1-E10-F U2-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U2 is loaded by
a process, we label the process with P B1.
P B1-E1-F U2-D: If a process with label P B1 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U2.
P B4-E1-F U4-D: If a process with label P B4 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U4.
P S4-E0/E15-F U4-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U4 is read or
loaded by process, we label the process with P S4.
P B1-E1-F U5-D: If a process with label P B1 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U5.
P B1-E0-F U5-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U5 is accessed by
a process, we label the process with P B1.
P S5-E1-F U6-D: If a process with label P S5 writes a
ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF U6.
P S5-E0-F U6-R: If a ﬁle with labelF U6 is accessed by
a process, we label the process with P S5.
P B6-E1-F H1-R: If a ﬁle withF H1 is written by a pro-
cess, we label the process with P B6.
P B7-E1-F H2-R: If a ﬁle withF H2 is written by a pro-
cess, we label the process with P B7.
P S6-E0-F H3-R: If a ﬁle with F H3 is accessed by a
process, we label the process with P S6.
P S7-E0-F H4-R: If a ﬁle with F H4 is accessed by a
process, we label the process with P S7.
P B6−7|P S6−7-E1-F H5-D: If a process with any one
of labels P S1 4 writes a ﬁle, we label the ﬁle withF H5.
P B8-E0-F H5-R: If a ﬁle with label F H5 is accessed
by a process, we label the process with P B8.
.5. Explanation of Deﬁned Judge Rules in Table 5
Download&Execution: If a process has a network con-
nection and downloads ﬁles from the network, executing
the ﬁle indicates that a threat of Download&Execution may
have occurred. The label P B1 represents that a process has
the semantics of Download&Execution.
Webshell: If a process reads/loads the uploaded ﬁle and
executes any commends without being allowed. It indicates
that a Webshell attack may have occurred. The label P B1
represents that a process has the semantics of Webshell at-
tack.
RAT: If a process executes a ﬁle downloaded from the
network and executes a shell command, which reverses a
shell to others, it indicates that a RAT attack may have oc-
curred. The label P B1&P B5 represents that a process has
the semantics of RAT attack.
Living-off-the-land: If a process interacts with a ﬁle that
does not exist, and executes a shell command to reverse the
shell to others, it indicates that a Living-off-the-land attack
may have occurred. The label P S5&P B5 represents that a
process has the semantics of Living-off-the-land attack.
Suspicious Behavior: If a process reads or writes the
ﬁle that controls permissions or holds sensitive informa-
tion, it indicates that suspicious Behaviors (i.e., persistent
stronghold, privilege escalation, credential access, infor-
mation collection, etc.) may have occurred. The label
P B6|P B7|P S6|P S7 represents that a process has the se-
mantics of suspicious Behaviors.
Data Exﬁltraion: If a process causes suspicious behavior
and sends data out, it may cause the threat of data leakage.
The label P B8 represents that a process has the semantics
of data exﬁltraion.
APT: Satisfy any one of Webshell attacks, RAT at-
tacks, Living-off-the-land attacks, and satisﬁes data ex-
ﬁltraion at the same time. In the case of such
an attack chain, APT attacks may exist. The label
((P S4&P B4)|(P B1&P B5)|(P S5&P B5))&P B8 repre-
sents that a process has the semantics of APTs.
.6. Details of Attacks from Laboratory
L-1: Webshell attack from the backdoored Apache .
In this attack, port 80 is opened on the host to provide
web services, and the website has ﬁle upload vulnerabili-
ties while any ﬁle can be uploaded and accessed. The at-
tacker successfully obtains the Webshell by uploading the
Trojan horse ﬁle and accessing and connecting through Ant
Sword. But the Webshell only has the www-data user per-
mission. In the subsequent penetration, it is found that
in the /etc/crontab ﬁle, the administrator uses the script
cleanup.sh to clean up the folder where uploaded ﬁles are
stored once an hour. By viewing the script cleanup.sh, the
attacker ﬁnds that anyone has the permission to modify it,
so the attacker adds an attack command in cleanup.sh to
get the reverse shell. Then the attacker starts to monitor and
wait for the script to be executed by the crontab. Soon the
attacker obtained the permission of the administrator. By
using id command, the attacker ﬁnds that the administrator
belongs to the root group and has all permissions required
by the attacker.
Through the shell of the administrator, the attacker
can modify /etc/crontab and /etc/sudoers to keep persis-
tent and exploit benign users. Also, the attacker can check
/etc/passwd and .bash history to obtain other user’s creden-
tials and collect their information. After that, the attacker
writes the valuable information into a ﬁle and ﬁnally sends.
L-2: Remote Access Trojan from the phishing web-
site. In this attack, the attacker uses a phishing website to
put the Trojan ﬁle into the target host. After the monitor-
ing is turned on and the Trojan ﬁle is executed, the per-

===== PAGE 22 =====
mission of benign user are obtained. Afterwards, same as
the follow-up operation in the Webshell attack scenario, the
timing script in the crontab is found, and the script is modi-
ﬁed to obtain higher user’s permissions. After that, the sen-
sitive ﬁle is modiﬁed to achieve the purpose of persistence
control and escalation. The sensitive ﬁle and user creden-
tials are read, written into the ﬁle and ﬁnally sends.
L-3: Living-off-the-land attack from vulnerable ser-
vice. In this attack, the attacker ﬁnds that a special service
is running on port 29273 on the host, and the permission of
users could be obtained through interaction of string over-
ﬂow. The subsequent attack scenario is similar to L-1 and
L-2.
.7. Details of Attacks from Darpa Engagement
E-1: Information gather and exﬁltration . In this at-
tack, the attacker uses the username and password of a
target user to log into the system and collect sensitive in-
formation, reading /etc/shadow, /etc/passwd ﬁles, ex-
ecuting commands such as if conf ig, tcpdump, psaux,
groups, dirname, etc., and returning the results to display
on /dev/pts/1.
E-1: Malicious ﬁle download and execute . In this
attack, the scp− t./ccleaner command is used to down-
load a ﬁle named ccleaner from an unknown address to
connect to the external IP 64.95.25.213, then to modify
SrcSinkObject . The ﬁle ccleaner is executed to obtain
permissions and collect sensitive information from the sys-
tem. The process also forks a dbusdaemon process, which
reads ﬁles such as /proc/f ilesystem, /proc/mount, and
/etc/passwd. After that, the ccleaner and the ﬁles gener-
ated by it are moved laterally to another host in the intranet
through scp.
Next a ﬁle named hc is copied from the external IP
108.25.125.188 to the host, and then the ﬁle is exe-
cuted. In this execution, the ﬁle loads a large num-
ber of binary and library ﬁles, and reads a large number
of /proc/directory ﬁles including /proc/net/directory
ﬁles and /etc/passwd and other sensitive ﬁles. After that,
the ﬁle is connected to the external IP, and a ﬁle named
/tmp/ext96481 is generated. The ﬁle is subsequently exe-
cuted, the permissions were elevated, and the sensitive ﬁle
/etc/passwd is read.
E-2: In-memory attack with ﬁrefox . In this attack,
there is a writable and executable memory space in the
f iref ox process. The process also modiﬁes the mali-
cious device ﬁle /dev/glx alsa 675 and increases its per-
missions. Next, when the f iref ox process communicates
with the external IP 86.129.31.201, a malicious library ﬁle
named /tmp/libnet.so is dropped. Then the sshd pro-
cess loads the malicious ﬁle to connect with the IP address.
Subsequently, the malicious sshd process extracts multi-
ple ﬁles from the host and transfers these ﬁles to the at-
tacker’s host. Finally, the process creates an executable ﬁle
named /home/admin/f iles/docs/audiobackup and ex-
ecutes it.